# Clipping-based complexity reduction

## Literature

Kvasnica, M. and Fikar, M.: [Clipping-Based Complexity Reduction in Explicit MPC](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/articleDetails.jsp?arnumber=6099563). IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, no. 7, vol. 57, pp. 1878-1883, 2012.

## Principle

Regions of a PWA feedback where the control action is saturated are completely eliminated and replaced by extensions of unsaturated regions.

## Prerequisites

Continuous PWA feedback law.

## Implementation

See `help ClippingController`

## Example

    % double integrator dynamics
    model = LTISystem('A', [1 1; 0 1], 'B', [1; 0.5]);
    
    % state constraints
    model.x.min = [-10; -5];
    model.x.max = [10; 5];
    
    % input constraints
    model.u.min = -1;
    model.u.max = 1;
    
    % state and input penalties (regulation to the origin)
    model.x.penalty = QuadFunction(eye(2));
    model.u.penalty = QuadFunction(1);
    
    % prediction horizon
    N = 5;
    
    % construct the explicit MPC controller
    ctrl = MPCController(model, N).toExplicit();
    
    % reduce complexity using clipping
    clipped = ClippingController(ctrl);
    
    % number of regions of the original controller
    ctrl.nr
    
    ans =
    
        33
        
    % number of regions of the clipping controller
    clipped.nr
    
    ans =
    
        9
        
    % evaluate the controller for a particular state
    x0 = [2; 0.9];
    u = clipped.evaluate(x0)
    
    u =
    
        -1

## Clipping of arbitrary PWA functions

Sometimes you would like to clip a generic PWA function over a specific partition. The example below shows how to achieve that, under the assumption that the PWA function to be clipped was generated by the `Opt/solve()` method:

    % formulate an optimization problem (see "help Opt")
    %    min u'*u + x'*u
    %   s.t. -10 <= u + x <= 10
    %        -1 <= u <= 1
    %        -10 <= x <= 10
    %
    H = 1; % penalty in u'*H*u
    F = 1; % penalty in x'*F*u
    % constraints in the form A*u <= b + E*x
    A = [1; -1; 1; -1; 0; 0];
    b = [10; 10; 1; 1; 10; 10];
    E = [-1; 1; 0; 0; -1; 1];
    % formulate the parametric optimization problem
    problem = Opt('H', 1, 'pF', 1, 'A', A, 'b', b, 'pB', E);
    % generate the PWA solution
    solution = problem.solve();
    
    % clip the function
    clipped = ClippingController.clip(solution.xopt);

## Clipping of PWA functions obtained by YALMIP's `solvemp`

Simply convert the YALMIP solution, generated by `solvemp`, to MPT3's `PolyUnion` object:

    solution = mpt_mpsol2pu(yalmip_sol)

and then use the procedure reported above.